SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

| Version | Supported          |
| ------- | ------------------ |
| latest  | :white_check_mark: |

## Reporting a Vulnerability

**Do not open a public issue for security vulnerabilities.**

Please report security vulnerabilities via [GitHub Security Advisories](https://github.com/sekia-ai/sekia/security/advisories/new). This allows us to assess and address the issue privately before public disclosure.

Include as much of the following as possible:

- Description of the vulnerability
- Steps to reproduce
- Affected versions
- Potential impact
- Suggested fix (if any)

You should receive an acknowledgment within 48 hours. We will work with you to understand the scope and coordinate a fix and disclosure timeline.

## Security Model

sekia is a multi-agent event bus that handles credentials and automates actions across external services. The following security considerations apply:

### Authentication & Secrets

- **Never commit secrets.** API keys, OAuth tokens, and webhook secrets are configured via environment variables or config files outside the repository.
- Agent tokens (`GITHUB_TOKEN`, `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`, `SLACK_APP_TOKEN`, `LINEAR_API_KEY`, `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`, `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`) should follow the principle of least privilege.
- The Google agent stores OAuth2 tokens on disk (`GOOGLE_TOKEN_PATH`). Ensure the token file has restrictive permissions (`600`).

### Lua Workflow Sandboxing

- Lua workflows run in a restricted sandbox: only `base` (minus `dofile`/`loadfile`/`load`), `table`, `string`, and `math` modules are available. `os`, `io`, and `debug` are excluded.
- **Workflow integrity verification** is available: set `workflows.verify_integrity = true` and maintain a `workflows.sha256` manifest generated with `sekiactl workflows sign`. The engine will reject any `.lua` file whose hash does not match the manifest.

### Network Exposure

- The embedded NATS server runs in-process with `DontListen: true` by default — no TCP port is opened for NATS.
- The Unix socket API is local-only (filesystem permissions).
- The web dashboard is disabled by default (`web.listen = ""`). If enabled, it includes CSRF protection (double-submit cookie), security headers (`CSP`, `X-Frame-Options`, `X-Content-Type-Options`, `HSTS`), and a cap of 50 concurrent SSE connections.
- The GitHub webhook server validates payloads via HMAC-SHA256 (`X-Hub-Signature-256`) when a `webhook.secret` is configured.

### Supply Chain

- **Release signing**: All release checksums are signed with [cosign (Sigstore)](https://www.sigstore.dev/) using keyless signing via GitHub Actions OIDC. This proves artifacts were built by the official CI pipeline. Each release includes `checksums.txt`, `checksums.txt.sig` (signature), and `checksums.txt.pem` (certificate).
- **SBOM generation**: Every release archive includes a CycloneDX JSON Software Bill of Materials (`.sbom.json`) generated by [syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft). SBOMs list all Go module dependencies for vulnerability scanning and license compliance.
- Dependencies are tracked with Dependabot.
- CI runs `go vet` and tests on every pull request.

### Verifying Release Signatures

Download the release archive, `checksums.txt`, `checksums.txt.sig`, and `checksums.txt.pem` from the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/sekia-ai/sekia/releases) page, then:

```bash
# Verify the checksum signature
cosign verify-blob \
  --certificate checksums.txt.pem \
  --signature checksums.txt.sig \
  --certificate-identity-regexp "^https://github\.com/sekia-ai/sekia/" \
  --certificate-oidc-issuer "https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com" \
  checksums.txt

# Verify your archive against the signed checksums
sha256sum --check checksums.txt --ignore-missing
```

## Disclosure Policy

We follow coordinated disclosure. After a fix is available, we will:

1. Release a patched version
2. Publish a GitHub Security Advisory
3. Credit the reporter (unless they prefer anonymity)

Commit message:

feat(security): Secrets Encryption (#85)
* feat(security): Secrets Encryption

Signed-off-by: Julio Jimenez <julio@julioj.com>

* feat(security): Secrets Encryption

Signed-off-by: Julio Jimenez <julio@julioj.com>

* feat(security): Secrets Encryption

Signed-off-by: Julio Jimenez <julio@julioj.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Julio Jimenez <julio@julioj.com>

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

| Version | Supported          |
| ------- | ------------------ |
| latest  | :white_check_mark: |

## Reporting a Vulnerability

**Do not open a public issue for security vulnerabilities.**

Please report security vulnerabilities via [GitHub Security Advisories](https://github.com/sekia-ai/sekia/security/advisories/new). This allows us to assess and address the issue privately before public disclosure.

Include as much of the following as possible:

- Description of the vulnerability
- Steps to reproduce
- Affected versions
- Potential impact
- Suggested fix (if any)

You should receive an acknowledgment within 48 hours. We will work with you to understand the scope and coordinate a fix and disclosure timeline.

## Security Model

sekia is a multi-agent event bus that handles credentials and automates actions across external services. The following security considerations apply:

### Authentication & Secrets

- **Never commit secrets.** API keys, OAuth tokens, and webhook secrets are configured via environment variables or config files outside the repository.
- Agent tokens (`GITHUB_TOKEN`, `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`, `SLACK_APP_TOKEN`, `LINEAR_API_KEY`, `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`, `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`) should follow the principle of least privilege.
- The Google agent stores OAuth2 tokens on disk (`GOOGLE_TOKEN_PATH`). Ensure the token file has restrictive permissions (`600`).

### Config Encryption

sekia supports native encryption of secret values in TOML config files using [age](https://age-encryption.org/) (X25519). Encrypted values are stored inline as `ENC[<base64>]` strings and decrypted transparently at startup.

```bash
# Generate a keypair
sekiactl secrets keygen
# Public key: age1abc...

# Encrypt a token
sekiactl secrets encrypt "ghp_mytoken123"
# ENC[YWdlLWVuY3J5cHRpb24...]

# Use in config
# github.token = "ENC[YWdlLWVuY3J5cHRpb24...]"
```

**Off-machine key support:** The decryption key does not need to reside on the same machine as the encrypted config. Set `SEKIA_AGE_KEY` (raw key string) or `SEKIA_AGE_KEY_FILE` (path to key file) via your secrets manager, CI/CD pipeline, or orchestration tool. Hardware keys are supported via `age-plugin-yubikey`.

Key files are stored with `0600` permissions and their parent directories with `0700`.

### Lua Workflow Sandboxing

- Lua workflows run in a restricted sandbox: only `base` (minus `dofile`/`loadfile`/`load`), `table`, `string`, and `math` modules are available. `os`, `io`, and `debug` are excluded.
- **Workflow integrity verification** is available: set `workflows.verify_integrity = true` and maintain a `workflows.sha256` manifest generated with `sekiactl workflows sign`. The engine will reject any `.lua` file whose hash does not match the manifest.

### Network Exposure

- The embedded NATS server runs in-process with `DontListen: true` by default — no TCP port is opened for NATS.
- The Unix socket API is local-only (filesystem permissions).
- The web dashboard is disabled by default (`web.listen = ""`). If enabled, it includes CSRF protection (double-submit cookie), security headers (`CSP`, `X-Frame-Options`, `X-Content-Type-Options`, `HSTS`), and a cap of 50 concurrent SSE connections.
- The GitHub webhook server validates payloads via HMAC-SHA256 (`X-Hub-Signature-256`) when a `webhook.secret` is configured.

### Supply Chain

- **Release signing**: All release checksums are signed with [cosign (Sigstore)](https://www.sigstore.dev/) using keyless signing via GitHub Actions OIDC. This proves artifacts were built by the official CI pipeline. Each release includes `checksums.txt`, `checksums.txt.sig` (signature), and `checksums.txt.pem` (certificate).
- **SBOM generation**: Every release archive includes a CycloneDX JSON Software Bill of Materials (`.sbom.json`) generated by [syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft). SBOMs list all Go module dependencies for vulnerability scanning and license compliance.
- Dependencies are tracked with Dependabot.
- CI runs `go vet` and tests on every pull request.

### Verifying Release Signatures

Download the release archive, `checksums.txt`, `checksums.txt.sig`, and `checksums.txt.pem` from the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/sekia-ai/sekia/releases) page, then:

```bash
# Verify the checksum signature
cosign verify-blob \
  --certificate checksums.txt.pem \
  --signature checksums.txt.sig \
  --certificate-identity-regexp "^https://github\.com/sekia-ai/sekia/" \
  --certificate-oidc-issuer "https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com" \
  checksums.txt

# Verify your archive against the signed checksums
sha256sum --check checksums.txt --ignore-missing
```

## Disclosure Policy

We follow coordinated disclosure. After a fix is available, we will:

1. Release a patched version
2. Publish a GitHub Security Advisory
3. Credit the reporter (unless they prefer anonymity)
